I am in French and in Spanish.
You can read one of those languages?
No, I'm sorry, I can't.
French I can read a little bit.
I can read in French.
Because it was a small book in which I told the story of the first edition of Amphitheatrum Sapientia Eterna by Kunrat, edition Hanau, 1609.
That was a very tortured story, and so I made the story of all the existing copies as a sort of detection.
What's the title of the book again?
Amphitheatrum Sapientia Eternis, a Kabbalistic book of the early 17th century.
which has a very complicated story, and nobody's able to say what the standard copy should be, the number of engravings, and it happened to me to have an incomplete copy, then to find the lacking engravings, and so to set up a good copy for practically nothing right now, it's very expensive.
So once, in order to please a friend who has a magazine on Bible Bibliote,
bibliography and bibliophilia.
I wrote that story that one was printed as a booklet out of, was given free for, I don't remember which occasion.
Well, I'll try and get it because I'm updating the bibliography on this.
Give me your address.
I sent certainly the Italian edition.
because I have many, many copies left of it.
I'll just put this in the book.
Then there is a French translation, which is not so good, but I don't know if still I have a second or third copy.
I think you'll like this, because this is a celebration of books through the centuries.
I start in Alexandria, and I...
But is it through the ages?
Yes, I started in Alexandria and part one is history and part two is journalism.
You are also speaking of that incredible character who was Guglielmo Libri.
Yes, Libri is in here, but the booksy Bloomberg is in here.
Because I am fascinated by Guglielmo Libri, and I have also some, yes.
You'll love this fellow here.
Let me just show you the photographs.
I have some of the tracks that were written at the time of the trial.
This fellow here is the big book thief of the 20th century, this Blumberg, who I went to his trial.
He stole 27,000 books from 350 libraries.
I took these pictures of him in his empty house, which was empty of all books.
And I have an interview with him in here, and I went to his trial.
It's a fun chapter.
I think you'll enjoy it.
I have reading material for my intercontinental return.
And I have the name of the rose in chapter one, of course, because my first chapter, I talk about the literature of books, and, of course, that whole novel turns on a book, on the theft of a book, which is awesome.
I have to tell you, also, I'm a former naval officer who was on a ship in the Pacific back in the 60s, and I remember when we crossed the international date line, this was a very big moment, you know, when we went... Yes, this is a very big moment.
You know that the sailors of Magellan, when they went back to Spain, they were convinced it was, let's say, Thursday, and they discovered it was Friday.
And they didn't understand why that happened, because they kept the track of every day in the journals.
And so they believed that since they didn't observe the Friday penitence, God punished them, stealing them the day.
Did you start with that concept?
No.
No, it came a little later.
My first, I never start from a concept, but from an image.
Mm-hmm.
So my first image was that one of the shipwrecked upon a desert ship with the island in face and the impossibility to reach it in terms of space.
Then it happened to me.
to buy not this one but another wristwatch of this kind with the world with the world time okay you see with the brightness no no with the world time well not the world time but it's a 24 hour and so you see the greenwich mean sign yes yes and there is also the date line ah and in a setting setting up the the watch i have
to reflect upon the dateline, that is something that we know, we knew it at school or reading Hulverne, and they said, oh, it would be beautiful to put between the island and the ship, the dateline.
So I complicated space with time.
At that point, I went to the Atlas to see where the dateline today passed through,
And first I discovered the Aleutinian Islands.
Very cold, I said, I cannot tell a story about the Aleutinians.
Aleutians.
Aleutians, yes, south of Alaska.
But then I discovered the Fiji Islands.
Okay, Fiji, that's better.
From Stevenson to Conrad.
And then since I, in my childhood, I was a stamp collector.
I remember the Fiji stamps that were beautiful.
Then I saw that the Fiji were probably not discovered but touched by Tasman, more or less at the time of my Nobel.
Then I came across the story of longitudes, that was a real discovery.
That's a wonderful story.
A real discovery for me.
And then I decided to set it in the 17th century.
Only at this moment, yes, when I discovered the story
of longitudes, I was really excited because I didn't know it.
Coincidentally, there's a book out right now about longitudes.
Have you seen that?
Just about, in fact, it was reviewed last week in the New York Times.
No, I've not seen it, but there are some of them.
I remember that eight, you know... What about the search to... Yes, there are others, because I remember that I was just looking around for longitudes.
I was at the stand,
Strand book store in New York, the upper level where Craig Anderson says this.
And I asked Craig, could you find me an interesting book on the story of time and longitude?
And in two weeks he found me the first book.
Then I found another one.
And I'm, well, if you send me the clip of that.
Now I don't need it any longer, but for my shelves.
Yes.
And it is an extraordinary story.
Then I got also old 17th century books about this Monsieur Morin, I quote in the book, at the Times of Richelieu, I wrote a lot, then Tiffis, Batavousse, then many, many, many other books.
At this point, were you doing research for a novel, or was this a scholarly inquiry for you at this point?
It was for the novel, but at the same time, it excited me as a scholarly researcher.
Certainly, in these cases, I pile up more material than needed by the novel.
That one day or another can be used for other purposes.
I remember when I was writing Foucault's pendulum, I put together so much material about hermeticism that I...
I was afraid to be tempted to put all this on the novel, which is already filled up with, stuffed up with everything.
So I decided to make a course at the university for two years about Hermeticism.
And so, in a way, I threw on the other side all this exceeding material for scholarly research on the late Hellenistic
times to the Renaissance and so on and so forth.
And so I was using the same material for the novel but this excess of scholarly curiosity was displaced on the other side.
How important is storytelling to you when you went into novels?
I think a norm.
I like to tell stories.
I'm a good joke teller.
I like to elaborate.
When my kids were real kids, I told them a lot of stories.
Now they're adults.
So sometimes I say when they ask me, why did you start to write notes?
Probably because my kids were by then adults.
And so I didn't have an audience to tell stories.
I decided to write them.
Well, I notice you've got a couple of children's books, too, as a matter of fact.
I have two of your children's books.
Yes, yes.
I would say, accidentally, because this painter, this friend of mine, wanted to do something together, because if you look, my text is three pages altogether.
Then, no, it was at the time of...
the first anti-atomic movement, and so we decided to make children's books about the bone, the atomic bone.
It was done for, let's say, for ideological and moral reasons.
Do you like maps?
Yes, I love maps, too.
I can tell you like maps.
I love maps.
One of my
dreams as a collector is to have all the books of Mercato, Orteleus, but they are, you know, these people stole so many pages that is more and more difficult to, a good, complete Orteleus is 250 dollars to find even in the pristine state.
I like them, and I remember when I was a child at school, during the class, probably the professor was saying something else, and with the Atlas, I imagined stories, the kind, I am Napoleon, I am conquering this, and working, traveling on the maps.
If you were me writing for a newspaper audience, and by the way, I read a column that is read in about 20 university cities.
I'm out in Eugene, Oregon, and Salt Lake City, and Charlottesville, Virginia, but largely where you would have a very appreciative audience.
But let's say you were me, and you were writing for a newspaper, and you had to explain what semiotics is.
How would you do it in a simple way?
You know that there was a book entitled How to Travel, and chapter 11 was How to Travel with Children, and the text was Don't.
So how to explain semiotics in a column, don't.
I am a columnist by side.
But I guess I'm trying to make the leap from your professional... Okay, we are in few words.
We are communicating animals, okay?
We are communicating through language, certainly, but even through gestures, paintings, even through this moment, the furniture and the interior decoration of this hotel is communicating you sometimes.
Luxury.
prestige.
You can detect from the interior decoration the price of the room in a way.
All that is a semiosis.
This activity by which we use something present, a word, an image, an object, in order to tell you something which is not there.
Okay.
That is the human ability to live
outside and beyond the crude presence of fact.
While you can say that a dog following with its smell the track of an animal is following the presence.
Then I add, and we had just a discussion two days ago in Toronto with
Some of my colleagues, some of them, assume that there are processes of communication among animals and not only, among genes, among lymphocytes, internal... And in a way, it's possible to find reduced models of communication at that level.
I'm not so interested at that level because I don't know personally lymphocytes, why I know personally human beings.
But let's say...
Semiotics is interested with all those devices we use in our everyday life to make something present, which is not there.
We can speak of God, of my mother, of Ireland, and they are not here.
We can do it through words, through math, through a photograph, our common human activity,
to go continuously beyond the limits of the crude physical presence.
Semiotics is interested in all of this and trying to see if there is a unified set of intellectual instruments in order to analyze all those phenomena.
So it is interested with cognition.
Today, semiotics is interfering
with researchers in artificial intelligence, computer science, with so-called cognitive studies.
We have frequently meetings with neurologists, psychologists.
So when you came at the age, I guess, of 50 to write a novel, did you bring this wealth of knowledge of symbiotics to the task, or was it really kind of an adventure for you?
No, I think everybody who starts to write a novel or a poem, irrespectively whether he or she does it at the age of 20 or the age of 80, brings inside it his or her own entire experience.
Okay.
I wouldn't say that I
paid attention or I planned a way to put into the book my previous knowledge.
No.
Otherwise, I would have written another scholarly book.
It was an act of freedom.
I want to narrate a story.
Okay.
Probably some of my previous experience.
Freedom or liberation.
Oh, liberation.
I am not obliged to demonstrate something.
No, no.
It was
Was it an expression of independence on your part?
Yes, probably.
And I had been requested, asked a few days ago in New York, you are working scholarly milieu in the university and you are a nominee.
Who is the wife and who is the mistress?
I said, well, certainly, university and the scholarly work is the wife, because I come back every day to tutor.
And so...
novel were an adultery experience which gives you a lot of a sense of freedom and i guess a degree of satisfaction as well yes i i enjoy it but yes the real experience is the process of writing that's why uh the pendulum took me eight years the island is six years i i will
I wouldn't like to finish.
I tried desperately to postpone the moment in which the book is finished because the real pleasure is going on.
Now, this became a film, see, I love this.
Yes.
And it was not a bad film.
It wasn't bad.
Did you like it?
No, no, no.
Once you accept the idea that the film is another interpretation of your book, not a translation or transliteration, it's not
like to to to transliterate from latin alphabet to cyrillic alphabet is an interpretation is another person who looks at your book selects some layers and makes up his own work once you accepted this perspective and you are not not so dogmatic or fundamentalist for for asking a point to point
faithful correspondents, okay, then you can recognize the film itself as another work of art and you can appreciate it.
But you wouldn't allow them to do a film of Foucault's pendulum?
No.
For two reasons.
One is that what disturbed me in The Name of the Rose as a movie was that many, many people read the book after the movie.
This is a
You have another person who filters the reading of your readers.
So the movie came too early.
And so for the Foucault's Pendulum I said, first of all, no, not now.
Let's see, in 10 years or 15 years.
Second, because there are certain fundamental elements in the Foucault's Pendulum that I wanted to keep under control.
And these would have requested that I work with them for two, three years and I...
That wasn't possible.
It wasn't possible.
So I prefer to freeze it.
I think the new novel, though, lends itself more, perhaps, to a visual.
Yes, it is eminently visual.
So it would be easier to do, probably, than Foucault's personal because you have a lot of visual experience plus flashbacks which are cinematically possible.
But I could be tempted
to work as an advisor for six months in Tahiti.
Especially in the wintertime.
I would be tempted.
I'm not going to ask you specific questions about the novels, because that's my job, to read them.
And if you don't mind, I mean, it's... You will make your own review.
Yes, yes.
I would just assume, as we're talking now, if that's okay, but occasionally I'll ask you a few questions.
before I got lost here.
When you wrote The Name of the Rose, I think the first printing in the United States, I remember it.
I was one of the very first persons to read it, I remember, because I was a book reviewer.
I was shocked.
I said, what is this book?
You know, I loved it.
And I remember the New York Times did a review of it on the front page, and it took off.
It went crazy.
I mean, I think the first printing was about 10,000 copies or something like that.
Four.
Four thousand.
No, I...
Well, I am not giving you something exceptionally unearthed off, but the story was the following, that Helen Wolf, Helen Kurt Wolf's book, a great publisher.
I met her in New York.
She had read a book in Italian.
At that time, the book was still in auction at Farah Strauss.
I don't remember that.
No, I remember that every time I meet Roger Strauss, he says, ah, my God.
I love that.
Okay.
And Helen said, I love this book, but you understand, Humberto, in America, speaking of cathedrals, abbeys, things that they have.
In Europe, they see them every day, but in America.
So we can hope to make 3,000 copies, not more.
And so if you accept an advance upon 3,000 copies, that was, I thought it would be better, 2,000, 3,000 dollars, I go.
And I said, yes, okay.
I'm so happy that you like the book.
The Kurt and Dan Wolf series was a great and prestigious series.
I was ready to pay myself to have the book in that series.
I said, okay, okay, not a matter of money.
Go.
So the first idea was that it was a 3,000-copy book.
Then they certainly printed a little more, because at that time there had already been the French and the German success, so they got the idea that probably it could... Okay, that was the...
the first forecast.
Were you surprised by the reception of this book?
You said you wrote this as an exercise, as an act of liberation.
As an act of liberation, and I thought that in Italy, being well known as an author, I said probably there will be a lot of people who have read my previous books that for mere curiosity will, so I can make 10,000 copies.
But the response, was that a shock to you?
Yes, it was.
Because it is an intellectual novel.
You know, obviously every writer, when writing, nurtures the hope that this book will become the divine comedy and make millions and millions of copies.
But this is the same way in which, I don't know, you swim and you hope to become Weissmüller.
Okay.
So then.
see yes it was a a surprise and what is curious is that i learned a certain expression in different languages that expression was in italian boca boca in french in english word of mouth in german in every country yes there were good reviews that started probably
the process, but every book seller said it's a book sold because of word of mouth.
A reader telling another reader, telling another reader.
So it took off not so quickly.
It was not like this.
My book is going into its fourth printing.
And it's only had one advertisement so far.
Just one.
And the New York Review of Books
It's been out for three months.
It was 6,700, first printing, and now it's up to 35,000.
Word of mouth is the best.
I worked for 17 years in the publishing house.
I am an author.
I am a reviewer, but I know that the reviews count until a few hundred copies.
Advertising?
Okay, certainly.
If for two months you buy a whole page of the New York Times, you can do that.
They are book sellers.
If they believe in you, they make your book to... If they don't like you and... I always repeat it.
I am a... I am a... Beneficado.
Yes, I was...
I owe everything to the booksellers.
They were the Smith of my fate.
You mentioned that you don't start a novel with a concept or a character even, but with an image.
So what was the image that you started with?
or the name of the rose?
Yes, I wrote in reflection of the name of the rose that I wanted to poison a monk, and this statement has been taken literally.
I didn't want to poison any monk, but I started with the image of a poisoned monk.
Oh really?
Yes, the image that in my youth, at the age of 20,
When I was still a fervent Catholic, I made a spiritual exercise.
You gather in a place for three or four days, meditation.
And it was in the beautiful Benedictine monastery of Subiaco, Santa Scholastica, which has three cloister, a Gothic one,
A Roman one, a Gothic one and a Renaissance one.
I was fascinated by that place.
And there was a library.
There was a library with a big lectern.
And I spent some hours in this library looking at the Acta Sanctorum and all those.
And that image was always present in my mind because it was the first and last time I lived for four days in a monastery.
And when I started the first idea, I had immediately this idea of the monk reading and at a certain point being murdered there.
Probably because the great tradition of detection stories comes under the ending of murder in the vicarage.
Vicarages are... Since I couldn't
choose the Butler solution framework.
I thought it might have been the text, the last text of Aristotle.
Yes, but I have written another story.
Well, the story of the text of Aristotle came step by step.
But then,
You know, I am a rare book collector only since 15 years.
Because I didn't buy, probably just because of the name of the rose, I went in touch with a lot of librarians.
I had some more money.
So you didn't collect before you opened the rose?
No, not occasionally very cheap books that I found in the book in East, let's say.
So nothing.
Exactly.
So after having written The Name of the Road, I became a regular book collector.
So for every book, I write down a file with all the description, short of margin, water stained, wormholes, rocks, etc.
And one day, by now, I have 30,000 books in my home.
Not all books.
But at that time, they were not 30,000, but probably 20 or 25.
So during, when I moved over there, looking at the upper shafts, I found a 16th century edition Italian translation of the Poetics of Aristotle.
I didn't know to have it.
I opened it, and here it was written in pencil 1,000, which means 1,000 liars, so 70 cents.
So probably 20 years before I found this book in 70 cents, even at that time.
It was like $3 today.
And I bought it.
And then I decided to make up the files for this book.
I looked in the catalogs.
It was the second edition, translated by Riccoboni.
I started writing down the title.
And in the second part, it was a use them as comica.
This Riccoboni was, in the last part of the book,
trying to reconstruct the second book of Aristotle's Poetics, which was not so extraordinary because during the century many tried to reconstruct it.
Okay, that's curious.
Then I started describing the book
and at the beginning of the second part i was obliged to say water stain exaggerated the soil the inferior margins are cropped and and at the end they are passed together that it was exactly the manuscript of my book i had it there it was not the manuscript it was a printed book but in the same physical
Really, it was disgusting to open the last pages as if they were poisoned.
So it means that I bought this book for $70.
70 cents.
I realized that it was too soiled and unpleasant to touch and I put it there.
But probably, I photographed it.
And 20 years later I believed to have invented a manuscript and instead I was describing that book.
That's wonderful.
That's a wonderful story.
I had a book there.
Now you're a collector and you're a scholar.
Do you love these books as objects as well as
Both.
I am not one of those collectors that don't open the books in order not to destroy them.
When I need, I open them and I do.
Sometimes there are sort of copies that I love just because of the copy, of the beauty of the copy.
Recently I bought them in Cunabulum, St.
Augustine, in the Trinitate and Civitate Dei.
which is not so rare, and it wasn't so incredibly expensive, rubricated from the beginning to the end, and also the typography is incredible, because in the center there is the text, in the margins the commentary, but according to the length of the commentary the text changes in size, so it's also the lettering,
the paper is so crazy in this case i love the copy because the text i can have it more than a more than a critical edition in this case it is the copy in other cases with several books i had to consult for for my note it was also the text and so i but i mean do you get a physical
You feel something when you handle a beautiful book.
Yes, otherwise you don't become a collector, touching them.
There are some books that I like to touch.
I read some place, I think in the New York Times, that moving has become a problem for you because of all the books.
Yes.
Moving from one apartment to another.
It didn't happen only to me.
I know several friends that had to move because the walls were collapsing.
Now I think to have reached the final point is a big apartment that was formerly a hotel, so there are many corridors.
And corridors are beautiful to shelf.
And so there are 30,000 books.
But now the rule is for every new book entering, one has to...
Who has to leave?
To leave, to go in the countryside and all the places, because over 30 is impossible.
How do you make the choice?
That is the real problem.
Is it hard?
Sometimes.
Are they friends?
I mean, do you feel like they're... No, but since I have an apartment in Bologna where I teach, I can decide, okay, there are two editions, so one is the original, the other is the translation, I bring the translation.
to Bologna because maybe it's more useful for reading to the students.
I make decisions of this kind.
But sometimes I decide sometimes to move the ones I had forgot.
If I didn't remember they were there, so it's useless they are there.
But sometimes the forgotten one is the most important for the moment.
You need a special disposal.
Winston Churchill, I quote him in this book, he said he had 50,000 books, and somebody said, well, do you read them?
Well, that's a ridiculous question.
He said, well, of course it's not necessary to read all the books.
He said, what's important is to know what you have and where it is and how to find it when you need it.
And that's exactly right.
When you need it,
And if you don't have it, it can be the end.
No, then there is another phenomenon.
At first, to glance, it's inexplicable.
That you have a book since 20 years.
You know you have never read it.
But when once you need it, and you pick it up, and you open it,
you understand that you knew everything about that book so first explanation is that there is some mysterious magnetic force by which having touched so many times this book you have sucked up the real explanation is that it is not true that you have never read it picking in the top and moving it several times you have opened it then in the meanwhile you have read other books that were speaking about the same
subjects or speaking about that book.
So in the end you realize you knew it.
You knew it.
But it's a beautiful experience.
It happens to me all the time.
I've gotten rid of books and cursed myself a week later because I needed it, you know, after having it for 20 years or something like that.
What do you expect?
I guess this is two questions.
I guess do you have a vision of who reads your books, number one, and what do you expect?
Do you have expectations from your readers?
I don't know if you are familiar with certain of my semiotic text, some narrativity in which I elaborate upon the idea of modern or ideal reader.
You don't write for an existing target, except you are writing on cooking
or sex for housewives, for soccer, cooking.
But if not, in a book you are building up your reader.
You are designing a possible reader.
And then the real modern reader is the one who plays your game.
And you can build up a very flexible
model reader, I mean multileveled, the one who is only multileveled, the one who is only following the story, the one who is picking up certain allusions, the one, and that reader can be the first time a first level reader, the second time a second level reader, but more or less you
And so you realize immediately when somebody asks you a question or writes you a letter, if he or she has become the model reader or not, even with reviewers.
You can read reviews in which you say, oh, he or she didn't play my game, so he remained outside.
But sometimes every negative review can reveal you that
he or she read the book the right way.
He became the kind of reader he was.
Simply, at a certain point, he or she refused to play this.
He said it was, it is not my vocation to play this.
I had some nasty review in which I
understood i had captured the reader so much comes to mind no not then we became we became good friends after that what was the motivation for that he was irritated he was everything okay but now the pressure from other sources yeah we met again recently london now now he's so kind with me after the accident because i
After that, I kept going and signing petitions and organizing things.
So when we met in Paris, I said, I'm the bullshit.
I'm thinking of another criticism in Italy.
in which the critic of the coast pendulum identified himself with all these hermetic words and with Mr Allier and only after the half of the book he discovered that that for me was the bad guy and not the good guy
At that point there was an act of rebellion and he refused the book, but he refused the book because in some way he was captured.
Responding.
And well, I was sad that the critic was so severe, but in a way I was pleased by this kind of mutual seduction.
I seduced it, but at a certain moment, he felt the sensation to be raped, and so he jumped off the book.
Sally, what's your schedule?
Sorry, I didn't want to interrupt.
I'm just going to go pick up Bill.
Yes.
Okay.
Sorry.
That's okay.
I'm just making sure, please.
What time do you meet him?
At 12.30, there's someone coming, and if you can just keep an eye out for him, and he'll probably see you.
This is Harvey Bloom.
Oh, I know Harvey, yeah.
Okay, well, good, then maybe you'll see him.
Okay, well, he might have liked a few minutes, too.
Oh, maybe we're seeing him right now.
No, that's fine.
We still have about a half hour to go.
Yeah, sorry.
I have you later.
If there's anything left of you.
I seem like you're doing well.
I just wanted to tell you that because I'm going to go late.
So I'm not a target.
I make up my target.
I was approached to have put so much Latin in the name of the rose, that's why I opened the pendulum with a Hebrew quotation.
It was a challenge.
Do you want to play the game?
This time you have to accept me this way.
If not, go.
So fiction is a game for you then, because there are riddles, of course, and you love riddles, so you do see this as a game.
as an invitation to the reader to participate in the game?
Yes, it's a duel with the reader.
I would like to use the term seduction.
My experience as a university professor, I'm accustomed with lecturing.
It's my job.
Every time I start a class with my students, not with a new audience, with my students,
I feel as it were the first time.
I feel that if in the first five minutes I don't really capture them and their attention, I'm lost.
It's the same as writing a story or a newspaper story.
You don't have them in the lead.
And if you can call it again an act of seduction or the theatrical attitude or the most common attitude in
in human interaction.
And this is the way to construct your audience.
And to capture them, of course.
The goal is to capture them.
Yes, to transform them into accomplices.
You mentioned you brought up reviews.
Do you have a thin skin when it comes to bad reviews?
Especially when the critic doesn't understand what you're doing.
Obviously, because everybody, not only others, would be loved and liked by everybody else.
So when you find something who is resisting you, okay, you are not so happy.
But sometimes you can learn something even from bad reviews, and then you know that since you have put your message in the bottle,
It can be received by Mr. X or Mr. Y. Okay, you cannot please everybody.
There are a lot of important books in respect to which I have not the ideal reader, and so I have lost them.
the charm.
I don't know which, but there are many problems.
You talk about putting the message in the bottle.
Of course, in this new book, you have this diary that passes through the generations, and that is preserved, isn't it, into the hands.
It's kind of a theme that I explore, this transmission of material, people who save and preserve things.
Yes, in the paper I called
books, the vegetable memory.
We have a biological memory, we have mineral memory, computers, and the vegetable memory.
And they play the role of the grandfather.
You know, at the Neanderthal time, memory was passed from generation to generation by the old person sitting down out of the cavern.
In the evening they told
myths and stories about it and now and now that that our our grandfather um you mentioned you have 30 000 books and you've written about an island in the pacific uh if you were to go off to that i was i'm thinking of harold bloom who told me he would take his shakespeare and his bible ah yes what would you have you got to make us i don't like i don't like these uh
Again, because I think that according to the stages of your life, you can change.
But I am answering that I will bring with me the New York FOMO.
It has so many names that it's possible to invent marvelous stories about that.
You want this?
Has somebody asked you that before?
That's a very good answer.
That's a very great question.
What's next for you in terms of fiction, I guess?
No, no.
I'm waiting.
Is it an inspiration?
I don't feel pressure.
I repeat, it's really an act of liberation to write an ogle.
I don't need to write it neither for money nor for
for keeping the attention of, ah, I continue my, I mean, my writing pulsion is satisfied in writing my papers, my narrative drives are satisfied by making my classes with my students.
So it has to come, it has to come.
Now, you are a serious scholar, distinguished, respected.
If, on the other hand, a hundred years from now,
people know your name for this book, and not for your scholarship.
Would that surprise you?
Or please you?
It can happen, but I have seen that a small article I wrote about the difference between Mac and Doss, calling Mac a Catholic and Doss Protestant, they were, it was one page and a half, is now everywhere on internet.
Probably in 200 years I will be known.
Who knows?
But if you ask me what I would prefer, really I feel embarrassed.
Why didn't you ask that?
I didn't ask that particular question.
I just asked how you'd respond, how you would feel.
I am ready to accept every possible... It's a delightful dilemma to consider, though, isn't it?
Probably it will depend on the edition.
If it is done in acid-free paper, it will survive, and all the rest will be dust.
When you think of H.G.
Wells, who worked so hard in his...
and his non-fiction.
And what's he remembered for us?
Oh yes, but in Italy we have the great example of Petrarch.
Of course.
Petrarch was spending his life in order to write his great Latin poem, Africa, and his sonnets were a marginal amusement.
That's the perfect example.
I won't take up too much more of your time.
You do write about obsession.
Do you have any obsessions of your own?
You know, I think that the first quality of an obsessed person is not to know he is obsessed.
Probably I have obsessions.
Probably.
Once my mentor, when I was still a young student,
The student told me, you know, Rico, we are born with a single idea in mind, and all during our life we are following always that same idea.
And I was very upset.
I said it's very rational, this thought, because it means that there is no development.
Then, getting old, I recognized that my professor was in some way right,
I have the impression to have followed obsessively all along my life the same seminal idea, and the only problem is that I don't know which one.
And I will discover it at the moment of my death.
I will have a sudden illumination, but it will be too late.
And you also were quoted once as saying,
you made a decision in your life, there are two ways to, to, to live forever, I guess, is to make a book and to make a kid.
Yeah, yeah.
That's,
You haven't changed.
Fortunately, I made two kids and 30 books.
Imagine if I made two books and 30 kids.
What a life!
That's great.
I'm not going to... But is this book, you see this book as a fable?
You can see it as a fable.
Every narrative is a fable, but if you want to trace a distinction between novel and romance,
Probably this one is more a romance than a novel.
I don't want to take up too much of your time as I said.
It's a pleasure.
Tell me where I can send you an address.
I'll send you a copy of the story if you'd like.
I'll just write it down.
I'll give you the one of Milano.
Whatever.
I might like to, if possible, I'm going to write another book about books with European themes, and I might like to come and do an extended interview with you.
If you'd be interested.
And on the contrary, you have to drop me an information like the title of that longitude book I give.
You have an email address in Milano.
You know the O.J.
Simpson's email address?
Slash?
Slash, yeah.
Slash escape.
Yesterday, my friend Tom Siebel told me the last one, probably you know, the lawyer.
during the trial it comes to Jay and says I have bad news and good news you know.
First the bad news and the bad news that they examined the blood on the spot with the DNA test and they discovered it was really your own blood.
The good news
Oh, the cholesterol is very low.
There was another one that said when the judge told him he was free to go.
Yes, I said, give my globe.
I said, like my hat and my socks and my clothes.
And the limousine service.
I'm setting up a limousine service with the motto, you will be over sometime with an hour to kill.
Would you inscribe a couple of things to do?